.TH bread-calc 1 bread-calc\-0.0.1
.SH NAME
bread-calc \- calculate baker's percentages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bread-calc [OPTIONS] [FILE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bread-calc
parses a nearly free\(hyform bread recipe in file FILE,
or from standard in.
By default,
the canonical representation of the recipe is printed to standard out.
Optionally, the weight, or bakers percentage formula can be generated,
or the recipe can by scaled up or down.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.B --help 
print a brief usage message
.LP
.B --summary
print all baker's percentages of the recipe
.LP
.B --html
print recipe as html. 
.LP
.B --weight
print the weight of the recipe
.LP
.B --scale-by FACTOR
regenerate the recipe, scaling up or down by 
.B FACTOR
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B bread-calc --summary sample.recipe
summarize a recipe
.LP
.B bread-calc --scale-by .5 sample.recipe | bread-calc --html >sample.html
halve a recipe and render as html
.SH FORMATS
The recipe format consists of a metadata prelude, and steps.

In prelude lines,
anything before a colon is considered to be the name of a metadata field;
anything after the colon is a value to populate.
Lines without colons are continuations of the 'notes' field.
I suggest having at least a 'name' field.

A line starting with a hyphen ends the prelude and starts the first step. 

Each step is delimited by one or more blank lines.

Any line in a step starting with a space or a blank is an ingredient,
consisting of quantity, units, and the ingredient itself.

.B bread-calc
makes a crude attempt to guess at the type of ingredient,
but you can always force it by including 
one of the words 'flour', 'liquid', or 'additive' in the line.

Here is a brief example 
(note that if you are reading this on github,
you won't see the indenting):

.in +4
name: imaginary bread
.br
notes: This is a silly fake bread recipe
.br
makes: 1 bad loaf
.br
This line will become part of the notes
.br
---------------------
.br
Mix:
.in +4
500 g flour
.br
300 g water
.sp
.in -4
Bake at 375\(de
.in -4

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
.BR ruby(1)
.TP
.IR http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baker%27s_percentage
.TP
.IR http://rubygems.org/gems/bread_calculator
.SH BUGS
It is cheerfully assumed that all units are grams.

It is undefined how 'liquid flour additive' is parsed,
but don't expect anything sensible.
.SH LICENSE
Copyright 2014 Noah Birnel
.sp
MIT License

